So in the previous lecture we were trying to create a task and while creating the task, at some point
we have to define the container, image and container name.
But as of now, we do not have any image.
Suppose there is an application team and they have developed some image and then with the help of Docker,
they have created its application image as a Docker image.
And then finally they have pushed the image to the AWS ECR or Docker hub, any repository.
And once it is on repository, you will have some URL so that URL you have to put it here in
the container entries.
And once you click next, it is going to execute your task.
So at the back end it is going to execute one container and that container is nothing.
It is going to execute your Docker image.
So what I'm going to do here with the help of VM, I'm going to create one Docker image.
So first of all, I'm going to create one nginx web page and or we can say nginx application,
we'll create a very simple web page.
And then with the help of Docker, I'm going to create it's Docker image.
So let's start.
So I have one VM and it is in running state.
I've already taken its access.
And what is first step I have to install docker yum install docker.
That's done and I need to start the Docker services as well.
System CTL.
Status Docker.
So it is in disable.
So let me start as well one more time.
Perfect.
So my docker service has been started on this VM machine.
Now I'm in this location here.
I'm going to create a directory.
You can create any directory name.
I'm giving application 1, and then I'm going to create one more directory.
mkdir app 1, I'm in this location.
Let me go first inside this one.
And here we have one more directory.
Okay.
I have created both the directory on the same location, but I want this app.
1 should inside this directory.
So let me create this app 1 here.
I'm in this location and here I have created one more directory.
So let me go inside this one.
And here I'm going to create a very simple HTML file.
So the file name would be index.html.
So I have already having the entry.
It's very simple here.
I have chosen one color.
So this is my blue colour and the message it is going to publish that is welcome to ECS learning classes
and happy learning Shikhar Verma.
Okay, so that's a very simple index . html.
Let me come a step back now.
I'm in this location.
Okay, let's clear this one.
Okay.
So in this location, I'm going to create a Docker file.
So vi Docker file, make sure the name of the Docker file should be same.
D should be cap insert coming back here.
And this is the entry you have to put in your Docker file.
So here I'm going to use the nginx image and then you can see I have used copy command and in the
same location we have one more directory app 1 and inside this directory we have index.html.
I want to copy this entire directory into this location.
Save and come out now in this location here we have the Docker file and also we have the directory f1.
Inside this we have the index. html.
Now I'm going to create the Docker image.
So let's see what all the Docker images you have.
So as of now, we do not have any image.
Now I'm going to create the Docker image.
So the command is Docker and build -t and I'm giving this shikhar Docker/nginx and then you
have to give the complete path of your Docker file.
Else if you are in the same location, just give dot.
Now in the step one it is just to you can see downloading the nginx image from the Docker hub and
then it is copied this directory into this location.
That's done, let me cross-check docker image ls.
So here you can see my image is running fine on this system.
So I want to push this image to the AWS ECR.
And once I will push the image to the AWS ECR, I can have the URL and same URL I have to put here.
So before to proceed, let me execute this Docker image and create one container for that and let's
see whether it is working or not.
So the command is Docker run --name.
Here I am giving the name of my application nginx app 1 and I already given this name.
So let me give some different name 5 and -p first.
-p first.
You have to give the host port.
So suppose I'm giving 81 and my Docker port is 80 and then you have to give the option hyphen.
d, That is for the detach and at the last you have to give the image.
Now you can see this container is started running and docker container ls you can see this now coming back
here.
Now coming back to this and this is the IP and go to the security and click on this security group.
And here you have to just click on edit inbound rules and here you have to add both the port 80 and
81.
Like this way, okay just copy the IP paste here and give 81 here.
Now you can see that my nginx started working and also let me give app1/index.html.
Now you can see that this page is also running.
Now let me come back here.
I'm going to stop this container.
Docker container stop and this is the container ID.
Now this has been stopped okay.
So that's all for this lecture.
In the next lecture, I'm going to push this image to the AWS ECR.